.TH YASAT 8 "30 August 2015" "848" "YASAT 848"


.SH "NAME"
\fB
\fB
\fB
YASAT \fP\- simple stupid audit tool
\fB
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

\fByasat
.RB [\-\-standard(\-s)]
.RB [\-\-list(\-l)]
.RB [\-\-debug(\-d)]
.RB [\-\-help(\-h)]
.RB [\-\-html(\-H)]
.RB [\-\-html-output
.IR PATH ]
.RB [\-\-advice-lang
.IR LANG ]
.RB [\-\-full-scan(\-f)]
.RB [\-\-plugins-dir(\-P)
.IR PATH ]
.RB [\-\-nopause(\-a)]
.RB [\-\-plugin(\-1)
.IR PATH]
.RB [\-\-scanroot(\-r) 
.IR PATH]
.RB [\-\-Plugin(\-p) 
.IR NAME]
.RB [\-\-print-level
.IR X]
.RB [\-\-check-update]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBYASAT\fP (Yet Another Stupid Audit Tool) is a simple stupid audit tool.
Its goal is to be as simple as possible with minimum binary dependencies (only sed, grep and cut)
Second goal is to document each test with maximum information and links to official documentation.
It do many tests for checking security configuration issue or others good practice.
.PP
It checks many software configurations like: 
Apache, Bind DNS, CUPS, PHP, kernel configuration, MySQL, network configuration, openvpn, Packages update, samba, snmpd, squid, tomcat, user accounting, vsftpd, xinetd,

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.B \-\-standard (or \-a)
YASAT will performs a standard check of the system, printing out the results of
each test to stdout.
A log is also created in ~/.yasat/yasat.result by default

.TP
.B \-\-list (or \-l)
List all plugins available

.TP
.B \-\-html (or \-H)
YASAT will export results in html (default to ~/yasat/yasat.html)

.TP
.B \-\-html-output PATH
With -H, this option permit to change the file where to store html output.

.TP
.B \-\-advice-lang LANG
By default, YASAT print message in english (EN), you can change the displayed lang with this option.
LANG is the 2letter digit of the lang you want. For the moment only EN is supported.

.TP
.B \-\-full-scan (or \-f)
YASAT will do extra (long) tests (lots of find).

.TP
.B \-\-plugins-dir PATH (or \-P)
Set the path where YASAT can find plugins to use. (default is ./plugins )

.TP
.B \-\-nopause (or \-a)
By default, YASAT made a pause after each plugin. For automatize tests you can use this.

.TP
.B \-\-plugin PATH (or \-1)
YASAT will just use the plugin pointed by PATH (ex: yasat -1 kernel)

.TP
.B \-\-scanroot PATH (or \-r)
YASAT will scan PATH instead of / (ex: yasat -r /mnt/centos6)

.TP
.B \-\-compliance TYPE
YASAT will check for a specific compliance (nsa, cce, or all) and will print the compliance results.

.TP
.B \-\-print-level x (or \-1)
YASAT will print infos equal or above the level X (All = 0 (default), infos = 1 warnings(orange) = 2, errors(red) = 3

.TP
.B \-\-skip TEST
A comma separated list of tests to skip without the .test (ex: --skip nfs,ntp). See yasat --list for all tests.

.TP
.B \-\-check\-update
Check if an update of YASAT exists

.TP
.B \-\-send\-support
Like \-\-check\-update, but it will send also as parameter your OS version for statistics.
In the future, perhaps also a sort of send_bugs.

.SH "LICENSING"
YASAT is licensed under the GPL v3 license and under development by LABBE Corentin.

.SH "CONTACT INFORMATION"

All contacts informations could be found at http://yasat.sourceforge.net/

